---
layout: post
title: Day 8&#58; On the Ferry
---

We woke on the ferry to find ourselves still in port. After a Nutella breakfast we watched the precarious unloading continue. Spying a glimmer of hope through the binoculars – a train locomotive moving in the direction of the cargo wagons waiting to be loaded onto the ferry – we were optimistic about getting away soon. We were less optimistic when the same locomotive made a worrying noise, suddenly stopped and a load of dockers piled into the engine room, apparently trying to fix it by opening and closing doors frantically. The train was still loading through the afternoon, and eventually we were told that it was time to drive the car onto the ferry. In keeping with the rest of the ferry loading process, we did a tactical faff so that the trucks would get on before us, in the hope of being off first at the other end. Only time will tell whether this worked.

After a further couple of hours of faff and tying down cargo the ship's Euro IV compliant engines belched into life and spewed black smoke everywhere, and we were away. Next stop Kazakhstan!

We celebrated finally being underway with a keg of Turkish beer, which unfortunately turned out to be 95% head. George managed to use his Russian skills to get another bottle of beer from the crew, who solemnly informed him that it was the last one, but then sold us another one about 20 minutes later. Having collectively drunk the ferry dry, our hopes of a booze cruise to Kazakhstan faded fast and we turned in for our second night on board.
