---
layout: post
title: Day 11&#58; Baku to the Port
---

Today was the most Soviet day of the trip so far. After a lot of faffing about, and trying to explain to a taxi driver that a map with ‘Googley’ in the corner was still one of Azerbaijan, we arrived back at the port. We were delighted to see that the ticket office, closed on our last visit, was now occupied by a man filling in an excel sheet for cargo going to Aktau with today’s date on it. Suddenly we felt confident that we would be getting to Kazakhstan.

We bought a ticket for the car and for Nick, the registered keeper, and then we were told that there was an extra fee for loading and unloading that would come to $40. George asked him why we had to pay this and the man just replied ‘THEY want it’ over and over again. To get tickets for everyone else we had to wait for the famous Amina and Vika, the Soviet comedy double act that features in so many blogs of Caspian sea travel, the grumpy one and the bitchy one (sorry guys, hope you don’t Googley this). After a 2 hour wait they arrived in a flash new car with a driver, took our money and wrote out tickets for us.

We asked where to get onto the ferry and as ever we received three different answers: 500 metres, 15km or 18km from the ticket office... it turned out it was about 70km down the coast road. Arriving at a partially constructed and almost empty port area we found two Latvian motorcyclists and a Dutch couple we had met at the ticket office, all sitting on the ground waiting for the passport control to open. After a mooch around and a few photos (which George had to delete because they were of ‘strategical war objects’, ie. an empty old train and some stairs) we settled in for a long wait.

After a five hour wait and a gruelling interrogation from passport control (with such difficult questions like 'are you from Austria' asked to Johannes) and a through customs examination which involved looking intently at every page of a Bill Bryson book, but nothing else in the car, we were allowed into the loading area. We immediately tried to drive onto the ferry but were angrily waved back, so we settled for having a quick beer and playing 'Playing with the boys' by Kenny Loggins on the car stereo. One of the port men rudely interrupted us by asking for a troll toll/bribe/'fee' to use the port and the ferry ramp, George tried to mug him off with about £2 worth of Serbian dinars but he was having none of it, so we begrudgingly handed over $10 in $1 bills.

It became obvious that the ferry had not yet unloaded, and we watched a great face-off between the port crew and a Turkish lorry driver, chipping in with our own car horn when appropriate in the hopes of escalating the situation to a docker fight. After the Turkish man backed down they started unloading loose steel beams with an overloaded forklift, with all the port bystanders sitting on the back to stop the forklift tipping. Torn between the voyeuristic desire to see the forklift topple and the knowledge that it would probably delay us by days (and also probably hurt someone), we weren't quite sure what outcome to wish for.

Eventually a man appeared from the ship and told us that he was the captain, and that we should go on board now and sleep, as the ferry would be unloading until the next day. We checked into our amazingly Soviet accommodation (complete with lots of portraits of the Azeri President, former President and some Naval heroes) and bunked down for the night.