---
layout: post
title: Day 5&#58; Stara Zagora to Düzce
---


We left Bulgaria and headed straight for the Turkish border along a highway which was virtually deserted; we were the only people heading to Turkey on this road. Although our slowest border crossing yet, was relatively quick (we imagine the further East you travel, the slower it becomes). The Bulgarian border control officer's computer seemed to have crashed, as he shut the little window (probably bored of our inane chat) and kept pressing Ctrl+Alt+Delete on his computer. On the Turkish side, we were sent to buy a lot more insurance than we needed ("no one week, only three month"). Insured, thinking we were ready to enter Turkey, we drove to the exit gate only to discover we hadn't received a customs sticker. Reversing back against the flow of cars to the customs area (and confusing other motorists), the friendly customs guard gave us the sticker and we were able to leave. 

Just beyond the border is the town of Edirne, where the [Selimiye Mosque](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Selimiye_Mosque) is located, said to be one of the world's most impressive and beautiful mosques, so we stopped for couple of hours to have a walk around and (yet another) kebab. Hitting the road to Istanbul, we came to a toll booth which only seemed to work with a transponder. Pulling over to the hut at the side, we met a very friendly man with a gun who shook Thomas' hand and spoke basically no English other than 'Welcome to Turkey!'. He sent us across the motorway to a post office where we were supposed to be able to sort this out, but instead we found a much less friendly man who just looked at the car documents and said 'OK'. Hopping back across the crash barriers and dodging the traffic it was time to head to Istanbul.

In order to get to Asia we had to cross either a bridge in Istanbul or one just outside. We went for the former, the more scenic route, to see a bit of one of the world's largest cities and its famous sites. On the highway into Istanbul, traffic came to a standstill just ahead of us as motorists tried to round up kittens who had strayed onto the highway (they then quite literally threw them into the verge, off the highway). Driving around the Istanbul city centre was enjoyable at first, with views of some of their famous mosques and buildings. However, it then turned out a very large traffic jam with riot police and water cannon to boot. Thomas adapted quickly to the local style of driving and began to enjoy pushing into lanes and using his horn excessively. Everyone else realised that it was possible to get out of the car to take photos and buy snacks, as the average speed of Istanbul traffic is about 0.01 km/h.

We eventually got onto the motorway outside Istanbul, still without our tolls paid and greeted by sirens at the toll gates. After an incredibly meaty meal and a play on the swings in the peculiarly named 'Kent Park', we spent the night near Düzce in a hotel that initially tried to charge us each about 100 EUR a night, and then eventually settled for our counter offer of 12 after some good negotiating from George.