---
layout: post
title: Day 13&#58; On the Ferry and arriving in Kazakhstan
---

Another morning on the ferry and no sign of land, or indeed anything else apart from an oil tanker a few kilometres to the east. Thomas had checked our GPS position in the night using Galileo, which had erroneously shown our location as Aktau, and had got up and on deck only to be greeted by the dark emptiness of the Caspian. We continued our on-board routine of bread and Nutella, with a brief celebration when Johannes spotted land at around midday, and the very friendly ship’s electrician told us that we should arrive in Aktau in a few hours before showing us photos of his father, a Soviet war hero, and telling us how much he loved Mel Gibson in Braveheart (which included some reenactments in Russian). Whether we would be able to unload before the famous Aktau Port Customs closed was still a mystery.

The ferry berthed at 5pm, helped by two Kazakh tugs into the port. Customs officers embarked shortly afterwards. After plenty of waiting and in depth search of all bags on us, complete with a sniffer dog, our passports were then very slowly processed by a lady who seemed more interested in scrolling through pictures on her phone than stamping passports in a timely manner. All vehicles were searched on the cargo deck. The portly chief customs officer, later unanimously labelled a 'dickhead' by all of our fellow ferry passengers, opened the back of our car and was immediately attracted to our Gaffer tape. Being the big dog that he though himself to be, he picked it up, commented on how nice and useful it was and walked off with it. A few moments later, George walked up to our new friend and complimented him on his lovely new roll of tape and asked to have a look at it, taking it back in the process. Naturally, the Bill Bryson book got more attention from the customs officers, but not as much as Johannes' camera case, about which a customs officer asked "Blyat', 4to eto za fignya?!" (Fuck, what the hell is that?!). Not too surprising given that it is the type of black flight case usually used to transport handguns.

More waiting and we were told to leave the ship. Asking if that was it and we could go, one officer replied "You haven't seen anything yet!". We were driven to the customs office in the port at 7pm. After yet more thumb twiddling in their waiting area, vehicle drivers were eventually taken back to the ship to take their vehicles off. Asking how long more we might have to wait, the reply we received was "as long as we feel like. Maybe five hours, maybe more". We thought this would be a good time to assert our dominance and remind them that we can waste time too, by sitting down outside and having a snack of bread and canned tuna. Annoyed by the fact that they were not the only people who could slow down the operation, tape theif (aka Customs officer in charge) told us that we had to put _everything_ in the car through the X ray machine (carrying it all through their building), which would have taken hours. Even then, they were not ready to start scanning so we sat around and got one of the soldiers (who all seemed as bored as we were) to take photos with us. The slippery floor allowed us to practise our Viennese waltzes, and we had fun on the large baggage weighing scales too. After another period of interminable waiting, we learn that the offices to import the car are closed and that we would have to return tomorrow, our man hints at some kind of bribe changing this, but we are having none of it, and get a taxi into town to find a hotel, have a couple of drinks and get some dinner.